Chapter 3 - Appearance and Grooming Policies
Section 3-1 - General
The Army is a uniformed service where discipline is judged, in part, by the manner in which a soldier wears a prescribed uniform, as well as by the individual's personal appearance. Therefore, a neat and well-groomed appearance by all soldiers is fundamental to the Army and contributes to building the pride and esprit essential to an effective military force.

Section 3-2 - Hair and Fingernail Standards and Grooming Policies (Male)
The requirement for hair grooming standards is necessary to maintain uniformity within a military population. Many hairstyles are acceptable, as long as they are neat and conservative. Hair must present a tapered appearance. Hair that is clipped closely or shaved to the scalp is authorized. Hair on top of the head must be neatly groomed. The length and bulk of the hair may not be excessive or present a ragged, unkempt, or extreme appearance.

Section 3-2a - Hair and Fingernail Standards and Grooming Policies (Female)
Hair will be neatly groomed. The length and bulk of the hair may not be excessive or present a ragged, unkempt, or extreme appearance. Hair must not fall over the eyebrows or extend below the bottom edge of the collar. Braids, cornrows, twists, locs, and other hairstyles are authorized.

Section 3-3 - Tattoo, Branding, and Body Mutilation Policy
Tattoos or brands anywhere on the head, face, and neck above the class-A uniform collar are prohibited. One ring tattoo per hand is authorized. Tattoos or brands that are extremist, indecent, sexist, or racist are prohibited, regardless of location on the body.

Section 3-4 - Jewelry
Soldiers may wear a wristwatch, a wrist identification bracelet, and a total of two rings (a wedding set is considered one ring) with Army uniforms, unless prohibited by the commander for safety or health reasons.

Section 3-6 - Eyeglasses, Sunglasses, and Contact Lenses
Conservative civilian prescription eyeglasses are authorized for wear with all uniforms. Trendy eyeglasses or sunglasses with initials, designs, or other adornments are not authorized. Lenses that are extreme in color or that have designs on them are not authorized.

Chapter 4 - Uniforms
Section 4-1 - Classification of Service and Duty Uniforms
The Army service uniform (ASU) and the Army green service uniform (AGSU) are authorized for year-round wear by all personnel. The AGSU is the standard duty uniform.

Section 4-7 - Wear of Army Combat Uniform
The patrol cap is the primary headgear worn with the Army Combat Uniform (ACU). Soldiers will wear the ACU with sleeves down at all times. Soldiers will not roll or cuff the sleeves of the ACU coat. Soldiers will not blouse the ACU trousers in a manner that blousing extends below the third eyelet from the top of the boot.

Section 4-10 - Personal Protective and Reflective Clothing
Commanders may authorize wear of personal protective or reflective clothing in the performance of duties. The physical fitness uniform (IPFU) or Army Physical Fitness Uniform (APFU) is the standard uniform for physical readiness training.

Chapter 12 - Wear of Armor and Insignia
Section 12-1 - Authorization
Insignia are prescribed by the Secretary of the Army. Only those insignia authorized by Army regulations will be worn on Army uniforms. Soldiers are required to wear the U.S. insignia, insignia of grade, and identification badges.

Section 12-8 - Combat and Special Skill Badges
Badges are awarded to denote qualifications and accomplishments. The maximum number of combat and special skill badges that can be worn on the Army service uniform is limited to the space available.
